The South African Social Security (SASSA) will bring its December payment cycle forward this year. To this end, social grants for December will be paid as from the 28th November 2018, and this applies to beneficiaries who collect their money from ATM’s and stores, This is done in order to cushion the beneficiaries from the December rush which results in long queues in supermarkets and ATM’s. Beneficiaries who receive their money from cash vans and community halls in cash will be paid from the 03 December 2018 according to payment schedules communicated to the different communities. Cash payments are done on different days in different paypoints on a staggered basis throughout the month.The early December payment should not be seen as a bonus or double payment. Contrary to rumours that circulate on social media, SASSA does not pay a bonus. In other words, if a beneficiary collects their December payment between the 28 November and the end of December they will only get the next payment at the beginning of January 2019.Money won’t be deposited into the old SASSA cards as from January 2019. Any beneficiary who is still using the old white SASSA card is requested to obtain the new gold SASSA card from SASSA or post offices as a matter of urgency. Any beneficiary who does not obtain the new SASSA card before the 15th of December 2018 won’t be paid in January. This is the final call that SASSA is making and the deadline won’t be extended.Social grant beneficiaries should look out for tempting offers on social media that are said to be from SASSA when they are not. SASSA has observed a lot of scams that criminals are circulating with an effort to rob unsuspecting beneficiaries, Beneficiaries shouldn’t give strangers their ID or PIN numbers even if they claim to be coming from SASSA. Most of these scams are distributed through WhatsApp, SMS and/or social media. Beneficiaries are advised to call SASSA toll free on 0800 60 10 11 if they doubt something or want to report anything.