The Westville Community Policing Forum (CPF) named Constable Sandile Msane as  the Westville SAPS Police member of the year at a CPF meeting on Tuesday, 20 November. Communications officer for the Westville SAPS, Captain Elizabeth Squires said, “This is another young man I am proud to call my colleague. Cst Msane received eight commendation letters from members of the public this last year. He excelled in every facet of his duties including arresting house robbers fleeing a scene where elderly residents had been held up and assaulted, being a mechanic on the side of the road to stranded motorists and much more. By all reports, he is the most pleasant person.” Chairperson of the CPF, Alex Gloster said that Peter Kaupferman sponsored and hand crafted both the floating trophy for the annual award as well as the individual prize of a hand-crafted knife which each winner gets custom made to their specifications.  A list of accomplishments accompanied Constable Msane’s nomination for the award, including his swift action that led to the arrest of a house robbery suspect and recovery of all stolen items and his support of a complainant who needed to have a protection order served. “I think the reasons for which Constable Msane was nominated show that he goes above and beyond the call of duty and that he is a credit to the force. His dedication and enthusiasm are appreciated by the Westville community,” said Gloster. According to Gloster, the annual award was started by the Westville CPF under the leadership of Mike Myers, and Kaupferman has sponsored the trophies since its inception a few years ago. Gloster said that, recent crime statistics showed a downward trend, but cautioned the community to practice caution in the festive season. 
“Although crime statistics this month don’t show an escalation at this stage, we estimate that crime will increase with the festive season coming up because there have been escalation’s in other areas and we are comparable with statistics from the same time last year,” Gloster Kaupferman, a part time custom knife maker, said that Msane was the third recipient of the floating trophy, a roman short sword mounted on a plaque. “For the floating trophy, I made a roman short sword and the actual woodwork was done by the late Piet Vorster. Constable Msane will recieve a knife to the value of R2000 and we will meet to discus what he wants,” added Kaupferman. Kaupferman praised Msane saying that he is the most “pleasant chap.”
“I am involved in patrols in the area and when you get involved, you start to see that there are a lot of people who do a lot of work behind the scenes. The trophy is my way of contributing because it’s nice to recognise achievements,” he added.