Blue light vehicles, 11 new SAPS cars for hot spot areas Minister of Police Bheki Cele and Mxolisi Thomas Kaunda KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) MEC for Transport, Community Safety And Liaison, along with other dignitaries, were once again welcomed back to the community of Chatsworth. The meeting was held at the Nelson Mandela Youth Centre on Friday, 15 June. Community members flocked to hear the keynote address by the minister. This comes after he visited the area two weeks ago, promising a report based on the concerns that were raised by the residents.
Newly appointed Hawks boss, Godfrey Lebeya and the independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID), will be heading the investigation of the protest that occurred on 28 May.
“They will deal with the investigation, and whatever their response is they will advise us further,” said Cele. He went on to add that they are working on having static blue light vehicles at hot spot areas, in order for rapid response to clamp down on any fleeing suspects within local communities. Cele also added that SAPS will get 11 new cars on 6 August. The MEC made his opening remarks by saying that we need to work hand in hand.“All of us need to work hand in hand. We would like the community of Chatsworth to know, that fighting crime remains our priority,” said MEC Kaunda. The minister covered a number of aspects such as the satellite police station for the Link Road cannot be provided, but patrols of Metro will increase. He also added that corrupt cops will be flushed out and the force will be coming down hard on drugs and cash in transit heists.
Community members had the opportunity to air their views on the crime rate. One of them was Natasha Naidoo, who came all the way from Phoenix to have her voice heard.“We have to jump hoops to get justice. We want the Minister to visit Phoenix. We are facing the same issues, and we want the spotlight shone on the Phoenix police station. We want to root out corruption and accountability,” said Naidoo. Naidoo’s brother, Donovan was murdered three months ago. The suspects of her brother’s murder are currently out on bail. Another resident, handed a memorandum to the Minister ensuring him that he had all the answers to the crime in the area. Sadia Sukraj (9) was murdered last month, in a botched hijacking in Shallcross. According to Cele, the third suspect is still at large and they hope to make an imminent arrest.