The president of the Congress of the People (COPE), Mosiuoa Lekota, was invited by the community to address issues that have been of concern over the past few weeks. The meeting took place at Maytri Hall on Sunday, 24 June. There were a number of issues that were raised by residents, namely land expropriation, Julius Malema’s hate speech, including racists’ remarks against Indians and exorbitant utility bills. Community members flocked to hear his speech, as he assured residents that the changes of the constitution, would be defended at any cost. “I am against land expropriation without compensation as it is clearly unconstitutional,” said Lekota. He added that he wants communities to be proactive. Communities need to know their rights and refer to the Constitution as we are affected daily by unconstitutional acts in our midst. The message that was left behind after the meeting was that, a united front is needed on behalf of all South Africans in order to minimise crime and create safer communities in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN). “We must take our country. This country belongs to all that live in it. We need to stand cohesively. We are all South Africans and we need to bring it back to the aim we had before 1994,” said Jessica Panday, Provincial Secretary
of COPE. This comes after a spate of violence and acts of criminality plagued the area. The most recent incident took place late last month, whereby
9-year-old Sadia Sukhraj was murdered in a botched hijacking outside a family home in Shallcross. Intervention by the community assisted police in arresting one of the suspects, another passed away from injuries incurred, whilst the third remains on the run. Many residents had mixed emotions about the meeting. One of them said they hope this isn’t a political plight to gain votes ahead of the 2019 elections. “We cannot drive in our own neighbourhood at night, or go to the shop without worrying whose going to rob you. I really hope action will take place. We are like prisoners in our own home,” said Cary Moonsamy from Crossmoor. Another resident, Dhivesh Durgapersadh, a resident from Shallcross said even though the turnout was good, talk is cheap until you see actions. “Many parties have come and heard our cries, but I will only believe it until action is done. We have ward councillors who were voted by the community but hasn’t delivered. I want to know what can he do differently opposed to others,” he said. Community activist Omi Nair said, “I could sit for hours listening to him. It was so refreshing to hear of someone talking about the value Indians add to this country.”