The harsh realities of life on the streets and in poverty stricken areas is a challenge that many people face and often find it difficult to overcome by themselves. It is a lonely, cold life, with little to nothing in one’s pocket or in ones tummy. Being on the streets of Durban and living under destitute circumstances, a helping hand is what many people need just to make it another day. It is for this reason, among many others, that a local church/centre, Harmony Centre, continuously works towards spreading the Gospel of Jesus Christ with those living on the streets and in underprivileged areas. Senior Pastor of Harmony Centre, Pst McWayne Sam, said that this is in keeping the church’s Biblically-based mission derived from Matthew 25:35-36 – “For I was hungry and you gave me something to eat, I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink, I was a stranger and you invited me in, I needed clothes and you clothed me, I was sick and you looked after me, I was in prison and you came to visit me.” The team includes Pst Gerald Louis, who is Harmony Centre’s Kenville (main branch) pastor, Sister Carolyn Louis, the Harmony Centre Kids Sunday School Principle, Pst Tim Vadivelu, who serves as the Harmony Centre North Pastor, while Pastor Trason Murugan is the assistant Pastor at Harmony Centre North. Pastor Fabien and Christina are of Harmony Centre City, where they host the homeless and prostitutes at church every Sunday morning. Joash and Adrianna Naidoo are the Youth Leaders of Harmony Centre. The joint vision of the church is to ‘reach, empower and evangelise’, especially among the destitute. Pst Sam said, “We do not receive any funding and operate by faith. Our future plans
derive from us currently not being able to accommodate more kids and people so we need to find a piece of land in Kenville. We need to build and thereafter plan on providing aftercare for kids, assistance with their homework, provide care for them which they do not get at home, and we also plan on assisting people who genuinely do not want to be on the streets. “Prison inmates who are released usually do not have a place to go to and they feel as if they are outcasts in society and should rather stay in prison. We plan to assist them and also women who are broken and need a centre that will help them. We are a church but we always emphasise that we are a centre.” Pastor Murugan, the assistant Pastor at Harmony Centre North, said, “Our church organisation is currently working with the community of Etete, hoping to improve the lives of the people.
Our main focus is the children, as we see potential in them becoming future leaders of the country. In order for us to make an impact in the community at large we feel it necessary to construct a building in Etete (Velani Township) to accomplish and build on our vision. So, we are currently trying to raise funds so that we can get land and build on this vision. Our mission statement is this: ‘When the church walks into the community, the community will walk into the church’.” The community is invited to attend any or all of the following meetings: Harmony Centre Kenville: At Kenville Primary School, Sunday School at 8.30am, morning worship service at 10am, contact Pst Gerald Louis on 082 899 4141. Harmony Centre North: In Velani Township, Etete, Groutville, Sunday School at 8.30am, morning worship service at 9.30am, contact Pst Tim Vadivelu on 072 172 2415. Harmony Centre City: At Durban Girls Secondary School in Greyville, morning worship service at 10am, contact Pst Fabian Govender on 076 381 5388. Weekend Outreach Programmes in Durban City and surrounding at 6pm, call 082 929 4832. A meal is served at every service, both at weekend outreaches and Sunday morning services.