A gang of brazen armed robbers, driving trucks, pulled into a business premises in Amanzimtoti and stole trailers and containers in the early hours of Sunday morning. This was the latest in a series of criminal incidents, including housebreaking and trespassing, which were reported in the Amanzimtoti area over the past week.Blue Security community and media liaison officer Andreas Mathios, said a gang of four armed robbers arrived at the business premises in Aarden Place just after midnight.“They entered the premises in their own trucks and proceeded to hitch up two trailers that had containers on them. They fled the scene with the trailers and containers. No injuries were reported,” Mathios said.The SAPS Durban South K9 Unit attended the scene of the crime.Mathios said brazen housebreakers burgled a home in broad daylight in Wade Road at around 11am on Thursday and the following day an intruder was again detected on the premises. “The housebreakers forced open the front door and security gate to gain entry into the house and fled the scene with a flat screen television,” Mathios said.“The next day the resident spotted a trespasser on the property at around 11am and pressed the panic alarm, which frightened the suspect, who turned and fled the scene without getting a chance to steal anything,” Mathios added. Mathios said that while it was not clear at this stage whether the intruder was linked to the earlier housebreaking, criminals did sometimes strike twice not long after hitting a property. “Criminals usually wait until residents may have claimed from insurance to replace stolen goods before striking again so it is important to reassess your home security if you have had a burglary because the burglars will now be familiar with any weak points in your home,” Mathios said.Mathios advised residents to beef up security, preferably before an incident, and to consider installing external beams and an electric fence connected to the house alarm for an early warning system. Incidents were also reported in Len Armitage Lane in Amanzimtoti where a theft of jewellery and a watch occurred when an intruder climbed into a bedroom through an open window, in Swales Road in Warner Beach. The intruder who entered the garden fled when the alarm activated. In Entombeni Road, two housebreakings also occurred.