 At an energetic launch on Friday, 23 March, Durban Youth Radio (DYR) christened their new studio on Florida Road where the station aims to give back to the community who sponsored their big move. DYR breakfast show host, Kevin Minter-Brown said that the new studio had been facilitated by donations.”I am overwhelmed with the generosity of the Durban community,” said Minter-Brown. In addition to playing local music and scouting out struggling musicians in the 031, DYR supports the community by offering jobs to about 40 young staff who have no experience and aspire to build a career on air, said Minter-Brown.
“We are really for the community in terms of giving people a chance to get on air and we have an open door policy for local music,” said Minter Brown. What started as a campus radio station at the University of Natal (now University of KwaZulu Natal) in 1995 became a youth orientated Non-profit community platform in 2000. DYR has been broadcasting from the Bat Centre since 2012 on 105.1FM.  The eThekwini municipality’s Head of Department for International and Governance Relations, Eric Apelgreen said that the station played an important role. “I think it’s a very powerful platform for young people to have a voice and further arts and culture in the city,” said Apelgreen at the launch. Now known as DYR105.1FM, much of the brands success has been attributed to Kevin Minter-Brown and Cameron Claassens, both experienced radio professionals, who joined the station to help and implement community license regulations which, amongst other things, stipulated that the station should have presenters, local news and community information. Within weeks, young Durban DJ-Wannabe’s were thrown into the deep end and given shows, and began training on the job. It created quite a stir from the start – the moratorium to take young talent, train them, put them on air and bring their knowledge and passion for the city, while constantly learning the craft of radio has always been at the forefront. Kevin Minter-Brown presents DYR Breakfast every weekday from 6-9am and has been instrumental in developing the DYR brand and orchestrating the station’s imminent move to brand new premises in Florida Road. Cameron Claassens has championed the technical challenges of DYR and built sales systems and almost single-handedly wired up the brand new studios. Tebogo Mashego, with over 15 years experience in community radio has worked countless hours to draft a constitution and do all the administrative work and recruiting and fundamentals that have kept the station running as it begins to find its feet.