A 70-year-old woman has been left traumatised after she was scammed by a wily trio of fraudsters in an alleged ‘muti’ scam which unfolded in Reservoir Hills on Tuesday. The elderly pensioner had parked her vehicle and crossed the road to enter the shopping mall when she was bumped by a man who smeared a substance on her. According to the aged victim’s daughter who spoke to the Westville Gazette, her mum became disoriented at that point. “My mum related that she was then approached by a woman who said she saw what happened and she must report it. A third person, entered the scenario, dressed as a police officer. At that point my mum said she was lured into a vehicle by the three people whom she encountered within that time. She only remembers the vehicle as being small and white,” said the victim’s daughter. She added, “My mum was robbed of her cash, bank card and SASSA card. She feared for her life and divulged her PINs. Whilst in the car, my mum was smeared with more of a liquid substance. She was driven to Alpine Road in Overport where she was dropped off and walked to a bus stop. My mum sought assistance from a member of public and called me to inform me of what had transpired. At this point she began regaining her senses and boarded a bus to return to Reservoir Hills where she had parked her vehicle.”
The victim’s daughter said her mum called her again asking her to block her bank cards immediately. “I called the banks to inform them of the incident that occurred and was informed that withdrawals and swipes had already been processed within a 10 minute period. The fraudsters worked quickly after dropping off my mum,” the daughter added. “I believe that whatever was smeared on my mum did cause her to be disoriented, making her a vulnerable victim for the perpetrators to dupe. Under no circumstances would my mum enter a vehicle with three strangers. Thankfully, she is now safe but sadly, traumatized by the ordeal. The perpetrators probably picked her out as they noted that she was an elderly woman and a soft target for the scheme,” said the daughter. Sydenham SAPS communications officer, Cpt Myen Lazarus, confirmed the incident and said a case of fraud is under investigation. “We urge the community to be aware of similar scams and report any suspicious person loitering around ATMs or shopping centres. Witnesses who may have seen something or know of information that can assist police in this case is urged to contact Sydenham SAPS on 031 203 2703,” Cpt Lazarus added.