Churches across the world are celebrating one of the most significant weeks in the Christian calendar, which serves as the corner stone of the Christian faith, known as the Passion Week. Coupled with this week long celebration, many Churches and clergies from across the nation descended upon Chatsworth as the ‘Giant White Tent’ in Chatsworth known as the ‘New Harvester’ was erected for the purpose of winning souls. ‘Jesus For Africa’ is a combined effort of many churches led by Senior Pastor of Christian Revival Centre, Dr Paul Lutchman, who is the visionary of this dynamic and mighty ministry which this year celebrates its 31st anniversary. The week-long celebration ends on Good Friday, with a Passion march proceeding from various starting points. Residents will take to the streets to proclaim the Good News with banners, placards and posters. Songs and dance will emanate from the processions as the march will be led by drum majorettes and bugle bands followed by thousands of attendees. The march which will be running for it’s fifth year, will commence at 2pm and will culminate with a sumptuous meal at 4pm at the Chatsworth Circus Site. Patsor Lutchman stated that the purpose of the march is to create Easter awareness and it is an event orchestrated to bring the community together in commemoration of the greatest love story ever told of why Jesus gave his life. “One of the most inspiring and compelling acts of humanity was when a sinless man took the sin of the world upon His shoulders and gave up His life, so that we as the world can be set free from this. It is even more inspiring that He, the Son of God, three days after having died on a cross, rose again and is currently seated at the right hand of the Father continuing to show His love and mercy towards the world. In the utmost act of selflessness, in the midst of pure torture, hurt, pain, rage and anger towards Him, by His creation, the creator gave up His all, His everything so that people of all races, cultures, creeds and walks of life can be redeemed with a price that cannot be re-paid. Jesus acted with an undying love and passion for the world and endured suffering. He was bruised, battered, pierced, whipped and oppressed and like a lamb to the slaughter He did not retaliate nor condemn those whom afflicted Him. We are thus compelled to demonstrate to the world this Jesus and tell everyone about His unfailing, undying and everlasting love,” expressed Lutchman.