BMW enthusiasts will have to rush to their nearest dealership to get their hands on the new BMW Coupé Edition Black Shadow as only 20 units will be made available in South Africa. Orders will be taken from April and the car will be available on dealer floors from June. Racing technology and an expressive, high performance-oriented design help the BMW M2 achieve its exceptional position within the premium compact segment. The exclusive BMW M2 Coupe Edition Black Shadow emphasises the compact high-powered sports car’s performance characteristics with precisely harmonized design features. The BMW M2 fascinates with precise handling and compelling forward thrust. The car’s 272 kW straight six-cylinder engine, classic rear-wheel drive and suspension technology developed and tuned on the basis of many years of motor racing expertise, has aroused worldwide enthusiasm amongst sport drivers. With the optional 7-speed M dual clutch transmission with Drivelogic, the BMW M2 sprints from a standstill to 100 km/h in just 4.3 seconds. Within a very short time, the BMW M2 has become a bestseller, whilst also capturing new target groups. With more than 12 000 units sold worldwide during its first full production year, the BMW M2 advanced to become BMW M’s most successful model in 2017. The BMW M2 Coupe Edition Black Shadow boasts selected design features that further accentuate the top athlete’s powerful appearance. The edition model is exclusively available in the exterior colour Sapphire Black metallic. Furthermore, 19-inch, black matt forged light alloys with a Y-spoke design and mixed tyres impressively underline the compact coupe’s looks. These features are complemented by exterior mirrors in a carbon finish, the decorative grille for the M kidney and trim bars for the side panels in high-gloss black. With a rear diffuser in a carbon finish and black-chrome trims for the typical M double tailpipes, which are likewise integrated on both sides into the rear apron, the BMW M2 Coupe Edition Black Shadow sets additional race-inspired accents.