Allegations of child abuse have reared its ugly head again after a four-year-old Phoenix girl was admitted to hospital with critical injuries that she sustained, allegedly at the hands of her biological mother and her mom’s boyfriend. Both, the mum and the boyfriend were arrested on Wednesday, 28 February. They are said to be out on bail, currently.
The toddler was admitted to hospital with a blood clot on her brain, internal injuries and swollen legs. She is said to be making a slow recovery. The identities of the child and parents’ cannot be revealed to protect the little victim. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, director of the victim support centre, known as, Voice (Victim Outreach Information Centre), Alvin Brijlal said, “This is yet another traumatic case of gross violence and abuse against a mere toddler. It is heart-wrenching that this innocent child is laying in hospital with brutal injuries meted out by her mum and the mum’s boyfriend. No child should have to suffer this kind of pain or torture, ever. It broke me to have to see her in the condition that she was and when I watched the video of the abuse at the hands of her mum while the boyfriend recorded it, I was horrified. I knew that we had to do everything humanly possible to reach out and save this little soul.” Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Cpt L Naidoo, said, “An assault GBH case has been registered at the police station. The 25-year-old female complainant alleged that she was assaulted by her 20-year-old boyfriend who also assaulted her four-year-old daughter when she tramped his shoe. The boyfriend beat the child and then hit her with a force that she hit her head against the cupboard. The complainant further alleged that her boyfriend threatened to kill her and her daughter if she did not assault the child whilst he recorded it.”
“Both the complainant and her boyfriend were arrested and charged with assault GBH. They appeared in Verulam Magistrate’s Court and were released on bail of R3 000 each. They will re-appear in court on 11 April. Phoenix FCS Unit is currently investigating further,” added Cpt Naidoo.
In an interview with the child’s father, he told the Phoenix Tabloid, that he was unaware of the abuse until he found out that his daughter had been admitted to hospital.
“My daughter was admitted under a different surname. I then found out that she was in a critical condition and was only allowed to see her days after she had been admitted to hospital. I had to fight to be allowed to see her. Investigations revealed that the abuse has been going on for a long time. My daughter has been beaten because she has a urinating problem and wets herself. The beatings stemmed from that. She has been beaten badly so much so that she had to be hospitalized this time. And sadly, her mother stood by and watched it happen and has now become an accomplice to the assault on her own child,” the shocked dad said.
Brijlal added, “I was informed by a family member of the boyfriend about the abuse. I then found out the child’s name and traced her to hospital. It was quite a mission getting a case opened. The mother denied any knowledge of the abuse and is believed to have said that the child fell off her bicycle whilst also teaching the child to repeat the same lie.”
“I then explained the seriousness of the situation to the mum and she confessed that her boyfriend was behind the beatings. A mention of a recorded beating on video grabbed my attention and I tried my best to get hold of the recording. When I viewed the footage, I was appalled. I could not believe that a mother would treat her baby-girl in that manner. Kicks and blows whilst her boyfriend filmed the heinous attack,” said Brijlal. “We need to as a community expose this scourge of abuse against our children. We need to be their voice. These monsters who hurt innocent children need to be exposed. This little girl tugged at my heartstrings when she said she loves being in hospital because the doctors and nurses care so well for her. Imagine the pain of her reality that faced her at home. Every child must be spared from this atrocity of abuse,” said Brijlal.