Stoning of vehicles and violent outbreaks erupted at Link Road, Shallcross on Sunday, 8 April, when five-year old Praise Mupisiri succumbed to her injuries after being knocked by a motorist. EThekweni Inner South Cluster Communications Officer Captain Cheryl Pillay stated that the child was walking with her mother when she broke free and ran across the road when she was knocked. “The angry residents from the Bottlebrush Informal Settlement hurled stones at passing motorists and burnt a boat on the road, disrupting the flow of traffic. Upon arrival at the scene, police vehicles were also stoned. “The Public Order Policing Unit stabilised the scene and continue to monitor the area. Police vehicles were damaged during this public violence. Link Road was temporary closed with Metropolitan Police assisting with controlling of vehicles into Shallcross. “Chatsworth SAPS is investigating a case of culpable homicide and public violence, ” said Pillay. The road remained closed in both directions following the violence and motorists were urged to avoid the area. Democratic Alliance councillor in the Shallcross area, Sharon Hoosen stated, “The death of the five-year old child was truly an unfortunate incident. “It is so important for parents and community leaders to be more involved in educating children on road safety. I will also be looking at stepping up programmes with the departments at schools on a more frequent basis. The community must also take ownership of this. One life lost due to lack of road safety education, is one life to many. I have also been approached by the local CPFs to launch a joint road safety campaign,” said Hoosen. Acting Cluster Commander of eThekwini Inner South Cluster, Major General Mandlenkosi Chirwa issued a stern warning to residents that taking the law into their own hands is punishable by law. “Criminals who incite violence will be arrested by police and face the full might of the law.  Police are appreciative of the sector forums who assisted the police at the scene. I thank God that the men and women in blue were not injured during this incident,” said Chirwa.