 Senuram Muthusamy, the talented left-arm spinner, cleaned up most of the awards at Wednesday night’s end-of-season ceremony. He was named Hollywoodbets Dolphins Player of the Year at the event that was held at Mount Edgecombe, rounding off his domestic season with a telling contribution with a ball and bat. In addition to winning the Player of the Year Award, Muthusamy took the prestigious Players’ Player of the Year, Sunfoil Series Bowler of the Year and Player of the Tournament and the Hollywoodbets Blue Collar of the Year awards for the player who does the most for team, on and off the field. One of the leading wicket takers in the Sunfoil Series, Muthusamy was pivotal to the Hollywoodbets Dolphins competitive edge in the 2017/18 season, showing his ability to throttle back opponents run rates and take wickets at vital stages in a match, while also contributing in the middle order, where the Dolphins resilience has helped turn a number of vital matches round. “I felt that I didn’t start the season well with the bat but I am grateful that I was able to pull it together and finish the season strong,” Muthusamy said. “Moving down the batting order slightly allowed me to play as more of an all-rounder and takes a bit of pressure off me after I was opening the batting and bowling. I am grateful that I have been able to find a role in the team that helps us win cricket games. “  KZN Cricket chief executive, Heinrich Strydom said: “Senuran richly deserves these awards. His call up to the South Africa A side reflects a season where he has been consistently strong with both the bat and the ball. He characterises the toughness that has been emerging in the Dolphins team this season, and has made us respected by all our opponents. “He is a player that has come through the ranks since he was spotted as a Durban schoolboy, and to get the franchises premier award speaks volumes about the way he has been nurtured through the ranks in this province,” said Strydom. His words were echoed by the KwaZulu-Natal Cricket Union president Fa-eez Jaffer, who said that all the signs were positive for the emergence of coach Grant Morgan’s side as genuine title challengers. “We made two finals this season and won one, and we played our cricket with aggression and enthusiasm, and when it was needed, there was plenty of fighting spirit.” “We were delighted to end the season with the emphatic victory of our KZN Coastal side in the Sunfoil Cup final against Namibia inside two days. It was a very positive way for us to end our season and provides the perfect springboard for us to build towards the future,” said Jaffer. Spinners dominated the Dolphins awards, with Prenelan Subrayen taking the award for the Momentum One Day Cup Player of the Tournament, and Keshav Maharaj winning the equivalent award for the Ram Slam tournament. Vaughn van Jaarsveld won the Fans Player Award.
AWARDS Sunfoil Series:
Fielder of the year 2017/18 Dane Vilas
Bowler of the Year 2017/18 Senuran Muthusamy
Batsman of the Year 2017/18 Vaughn Van Jaarsveld Momentum ODC: Fielder of the year 2017/18 Sibonelo Makhanya Bowler of the Year 2017/18 Prenelan Subrayen Batsman of the Year 2017/18 SJ Erwee Ram Slam T20: Fielder of the year 2017/18 Prenelan Subrayen Bowler of the Year 2017/18 Robbie Frylinck Batsman of the Year 2017/18 Morné Van Wyk Player of the Tournament:  Sunfoil Series:: Player of the year 2017/18 Senuran Muthusamy Momentum ODC: Player of the year 2017/18 Senuran Muthusamy Ram Slam: Player of the year 2017/18 Morné van Wyk Hollywoodbets Blue Collar of the Year: Senuran Muthusamy Fans Player: Vaughn Van Jaarsveld Brand Ambassador: Keshav Maharaj Most Valuable Player: Dane Vilas  Players Player of the Year: Senuran Muthusamy Player of the Year: Senuran Muthusamy