By Krishnee Naidoo A contingent of Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) ground members including the helicopter crew were out in full force on Monday morning in search of a truck driver who skipped a red robot and collided into four vehicles after which he fled the scene at the Palmview and R102 intersection. Eleven casualties were treated at the scene and transported to various hospitals for further medical attention. RUSA pilot and boss, Prem Balram, said, “Reaction Unit South Africa received multiple calls from motorists who witnessed the accident and reported several injuries and entrapments. Emergency Services and Rescue personnel converged on the scene and closed off the R102 southbound lane. “The Jaws of Life was used to free the entrapped. About 11 patients from the four vehicles were treated and transported to various hospitals in the Phoenix and Verulam area.” Balram added, “The RUSA helicopter was called out to the scene to search for the truck driver who fled immediately after the accident. After a lengthy search over a dense bush, he was spotted by the helicopter crew. Back-up was called to the area, however, the suspect managed to flee into a river and under a bridge.
Reaction Officers searched the dense bush on foot with negative results.” “According to witnesses, the white Mercedes Benz mechanical horse and trailer was northbound on the R102 when it passed a red robot and crashed into a black Opel Corsa bakkie, a white VW Polo, a white Nissan Hardbody and a white Hyundai H100. The truck then veered off the road and landed in a vacant property on the opposite lane. The driver jumped off the truck and fled into the nearby bush. No details of the driver were immediately available,” said Balram. “Swift response from emergency and rescue personnel ensured that the entrapped and injured were quickly freed and treated. Thankfully, there were no fatalities. Road users are yet again urged to be patient on the roads and be mindful of other road users. Too often, reckless and negligent driving can be blamed for death, injuries and utter chaos on the roadways. Adhering to the rules of the road ensures safe travels for all road users,” said Balram.