Things are set to get heated at the 2018 South Coast Bike Fest, sponsored by UGU South Coast Tourism and Tourism KZN, taking place this long weekend (27 to 30 April), as some of the country’s best bikers head to Margate for some high-octane motorcycle action in the Full Throttle Staging Arena. Running from 10am to 4pm on Monday, 30 April at the Extreme Experiential Zone, the Southern Africa Endurox Series promises audiences non-stop extreme biking thrills as experienced bikers master the obstacle-laden course. This year will see bikers competing in six classes – pro, expert, hobby, 85 pro mini, 65 junior mini and the micro mini’s for ages four to six. Some big-name riders competing for the gold first prize include Wade Young (Sherco Factory Rider), Kyle Flanagan (Proudly Bidvest Yamaha and current World Indoor Junior Champion contender), Travis Teasdale (Beta Factory Racing), Matt Barnes (KTM Durban), Altus de Wet (Roost KTM), Blake Gutzeit (2017 World Indoor EnduroX Champion) and Piwe Zulu (Herbalife Nutrition bLU cRU Yamaha Racing Team). The youngest rider taking to the track in the micro mini’s class is recently-turned five-year-old, Cody Greger, of Drummond, KwaZulu-Natal. Riding since the tender age of only 18 months little Cody races regional and club motocross competitions as well as the Southern Africa Endurox Series events such as this. He is currently in the first position in both club and regional motocross championships and will soon move up to 50cc pro. Older brother, Levi, has also been competing since the age of four and currently races in the 65 Pro Class at club, regional and national motocross levels as well as KZN X-Country and Southern Africa Endurox Series. He is currently first in the club 65cc Pro Championship and second in the Regional Motocross and EnduroX 65cc Championship. This year’s Series format will include two non-timed practice sessions and one timed practice session with the top seven fastest times overall moving to the Superpole – the top three get bonus points and an automatic gate pick for the Final 1. The total points from Final 1, 2 and 3 – as well as the Superpole points – will determine the winner. The extreme action continues with The King Donut Show on Saturday and Sunday from 11.40am to 12pm as Alfred “Kind Donut” Matamela shows off his legendary moves on his Yamaha R1 and MT10. And for those wanting to do more than just watch, this year’s South Coast Bike Fest is offering an adrenaline rush for all ages with the introduction of the Bounce Vibe Tribe Stunt Show at 10am, 2pm and 5pm daily. This gravity-defying trampoline allows participants to take on the “Great Wall” or slam dunk like a basketball pro while mixing it up with the bounce parkour and extreme cheer crew. There will also be demonstrations by the Bounce Vibe Tribe who will literally bounce off the walls in this incredible free-jumping revolution. From 2.30pm, biking legends Matthew Wegner and Devon ‘DMAck’ Mackenzie will put on a death-defying performance as the Trials Bike Stunt Show kicks off. DMack, who has been riding trials bikes for a decade, is a two-time Pro B National champion and currently sits in third place countrywide in the country in the Pro Elite class. Wegner, who pulled off a third-place finish in the South African National Trials championship against his idols, the Le Riche brothers, has also been riding trials for several years. For the South Coast Bike Fest, both riders will be navigating their way over a series of obstacles, showing off their precision balance and riding skills. Some lucky spectators could also get a chance to balance on one of the bikes and try outbalance their heroes. There will be an autograph session after the show and an opportunity to chat to the riders. All bikers and pillions are urged to pre-register online for #freefunseeker tickets which give free access to the entire event precinct including the main stage featuring all the headline artist performances. All non-biking pedestrians will be charged a nominal fee per day. Children U12 accompanied by an adult enter free. Pre-registration for the biking community and limited pedestrian ticket sales are available at www.southcoastbikefest.co.za.