It was a bloody end for a Phoenix hijacker when he was found dead in the back seat of the car he had hijacked from Redfern Crescent which crashed on the R102 Duffs Road together with two other accomplices, last Tuesday afternoon. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, local resident Justin Maduray (32), said his hijacking ordeal occurred in the blink of an eye and 15 minutes later, after watching the hijackers take off with his vehicle, he was informed that his beloved Golf 1 had been recovered, albeit in a written-off state. “I had stopped outside a friendís house for a less than two-minute chat. I noticed three men casually strolling, chatting and laughing as they approached the vehicle. I did not for a moment consider that they were suspects. They seemed like three friends going on their way enjoying a chat and a laugh. Little did I realise that these would be the men responsible for making me a victim of crime and driving off with my hard-earned car,” said Maduray. “Suddenly, one of the men pointed a firearm at the windscreen and walked around to the driver’s side of the vehicle with the gun still placed on the windscreen. He ordered me out of the vehicle and as I jumped off, he noticed my cigarettes and cellphone in my hands. He demanded the cellphone with the gun placed in front of my face and I complied. One of his accomplices jumped through the front seat into the vehicle and then pulled my friend out. They sped off with us watching them in stark horror,” Maduray added. He said a fellow friend who watched the incident unfold a few doors away, quickly alerted a passing police patrol vehicle and a chase ensued. KZN VIP spokesman, Romano Naidoo said, “KZN VIP Response team joined the Phoenix Trio Crime Unit in a high speed chase in pursuit of the hijackers headed towards KwaMashu. The suspects opened fire on police during the chase. The suspects then crashed into a stationary vehicle and ploughed into a traffic light on Duffs Road. One suspect was found dead inside the vehicle.”
It is alleged that the suspect demised as a result of the impact of the crash. Two suspects fled the scene on foot. A firearm was also seized at the crash site.
The SAPS K9 Unit and all other respondents assisted in searching for the two accomplices who made a quick getaway.
Maduray said he responded to the scene and was shocked to see the dead suspect as the very one who pointed him with a firearm. ìI was heartbroken to see my car in that state. Disappointment, anger, shock. Thatís what I felt. I worked hard for my car. It was gone in the blink of an eye and then recovered in that crashed state with a dead suspect inside. It was just unbelievable,” said Maduray. A case of culpable homicide and hijacking is under investigation by police.
Phoenix CPF chairman, Umesh Singh, also responded to the crime scene said the battle against criminals is ongoing. “Thankfully, the victims were not harmed in any way. “I am confident that police will track and arrest the two suspects who evaded arrest. We, as crime-fighters, will continue to serve and protect our community led by police as best we can. I urge residents to remain vigilant and join the local CPF in fighting crime on our streets. Together we can accomplish more,” said Singh.