Phoenix Plaza prides itself in being involved in the upliftment of the youth by giving back to the community through various years of awarding school fee bursaries to deserving pupils. This year Phoenix Plaza will be hosting a fun and exciting spelling bee competition which will be open to pupils in schools in Phoenix and surrounding areas. In order to participate, Pupils must be between the ages of 10-13 years old and must enter through their school. Entries open on 9 January and close on 29 January 2018. The participants will be chosen via a panel of judges and contacted to participate at the Spelling Bee event. The event will take place on 3rd February at the Jet court where pupils will go through various rounds of the competition. The winner will walk away with a 1 year school bursary, stationery, books, vouchers and many more spectacular prizes! Plus, a prize for the school they are representing. In addition, Phoenix Plaza will be awarding pupils the opportunity to have their school fees paid for the new academic year up to a maximum value of R1500. Interested applicants must visit the Phoenix Plaza marketing office for an application form.
Entries can be dropped off at the marketing office or emailed to thephoenixplaza@gmail.com. In keeping with the theme of education, Phoenix Plaza will also be hosting a story book collection drive. As parents and caregivers, we all dream of success for our children- and storytelling and reading provides one of the ways to help fulfil these dreams. Reading has an impact on children because it opens up new sources of information, new activities and helps with the development of writing skills. Shoppers who are willing to donate are encouraged to drop off new or old story books to the marketing office. Once collected these books will be distributed to underprivileged schools in the Phoenix community by enhancing their library. Visit our website on www.thephoenixplaza.co.za, Like us on our Facebook page www.facebook.com/ThePhoenixPlaza or call the marketing office on (031) 507 8505 for more information.