Phoenix lovebirds, Sewparsad Biddassee (68) and wife, Rita Biddassee (64) recently celebrated their ruby anniversary, marking 40 years of marital bliss. The Palmview couple celebrated their undying love with a prayer service, giving thanks to God for their long lasting unity followed by a lunch gathering at their residence. They later went out for supper at a restaurant in Gateway, Umhlanga. In an interview with the Phoenix Tabloid, the couple said they met at a clothing factory in Durban. “After meeting each other at work, we became close friends. She was a loveable person with a great personality and very easy to talk to,” said Mr Biddassee.
“We were friends for about a year and as we spent more time together, we grew closer to each other and began to fall in love gradually. Our love grew stronger and stronger and after 2 years of dating, we decided that we want to spend the rest of our lives together,” he said.
“On 31 December 1977, we had a beautiful Christian wedding at a church in Asherville which was attended by approximately 200 guests. We celebrated the day with family and friends, a very special day indeed. I was excited and happy to be marrying the love of my life,” said Mrs Biddassee. She added that she still feels the very same way she did about her husband years ago. “He is a loving, caring and very supportive husband to me. He is always by my side, taking good care of me and I’m forever grateful for him,” added Mrs Biddassee. Speaking about the qualities he loves most about his wife, Mr Biddassee said, “My wife is a very special person, she is the most loving and caring person with a smile so infectious, not forgetting a God fearing woman whom I truly admire and adore.” In her leisure time, Mrs Biddassee enjoys cooking and entertaining family and friends while Mr Biddassee spends his time reading. Together they enjoy going out for lunch, spending quality time, taking trips to the beach and most importantly going to church. The Biddassees are blessed with two sons, Mark and Wayne and three grandchildren, Luke, Anna and Josh whom they love dearly. Their advice for a happy and long lasting marriage for younger couples is to be inseparable, true and honest to each other and make God the centre of your love and marriage. “Without God we wouldn’t have reached this milestone in our marriage,” they said. Their children wished them all the best in the years to come. “Through love, sorrows, heartaches and the joys of life, you have stood with each other side by side carrying the mantle for 40 years. Your relationship is so precious and inspires us. We wish you all the best in your unity and may God bless your with
more beautiful years together,” said Mark, Luke and their spouses.