Ethekwini Outer North Cluster and Phoenix CPF chairman, Umesh Singh, has called on all victims of rock-throwing incidents to report every incident to the police for the purpose of statistics and mobilising more units to curb the prevalent bane that is causing havoc in Durban and surrounding areas. Singh was part of the task team that attended a multi-disciplinary law enforcement meeting on the bridge on the N2 just after the Tongaat Toll Plaza on Tuesday, to discuss a way forward regarding the violent rock-throwing incidents. A Task Team has been set up to probe and curb the rock-throwing incidents whilst eThekwini Municipality waits on due processes to occur with regards to steel cages being erected and surveillance cameras mounted on bridges in affected areas. Present at the meeting was Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Ngobeni, Durban North, Phoenix, Verulam and Tongaat SAPS, various CPFs, Metro Police, RTI, personnel from the Department of Community, Safety and Liaison and Councillor Geoff Pullan. “There are more reports of rock-throwing on social media than which is reported to police. Every incident, no matter how minor, must be reported to the nearest police station. Police have stepped up patrols in the affected areas and Metro Police, RTI, private security companies, public volunteers and CPF members have also lent their support to the initiative of monitoring and patrolling the affected areas as best they can,” said Singh.
Singh said the team will be visiting the communities near the bridges where the incidents have occurred and will educate and empower them on the situation and how they can make a difference.
The Task Team were proactive and also distributed pamphlets to passing motorists advising them to take precautions against possible rock-throwing that can occur. “We are hoping to mobilise the communities to assist us in clamping down on the criminals involved in the rock-throwing incidents and they will be informed that there is the reward up for grabs should they provide pertinent information that can assist us in making arrests. “I also urge all other clusters to take the necessary precautions to safeguard their areas and community members. Our ultimate aim is to arrest those responsible for these heinous crimes especially the loss of two young lives in the vicinity of the Tongaat Toll Plaza nearly two months ago,” said Singh.
Meanwhile, eThekwini Municipality waits on due processes to occur with regards to steel cages being erected and surveillance cameras mounted on bridges in affected areas.