Unite with thousands of South Africans at the annual 1st for Women Sisters with Blisters walk taking place in Durban in March 2018. Now in its 12th year, the 1st for Women Sisters with Blisters 5km walk in partnership with East Coast Radio takes place on 3 March at Chris Saunders Park, uMhlanga. Entries are now open and available for Durban. The walk is dedicated to the upliftment, advancement and empowerment of women. In order to move forward we have to remove the difficulties which are holding us back. Women abuse is a social tragedy which has reached epidemic proportions, not only locally but globally too, and it urgently needs to be addressed so that women are empowered to go forward together.
The 1st for Women Sisters with Blisters walk is taking place at the time of International Women’s Day, as it is the perfect opportunity to show strength in numbers and unite with all women from around the world and show support for the international sisterhood.Funds raised from the events will be donated to the Centre for Community and Justice Development in KwaZulu-Natal, a non-profit organisations making a meaningful effort to support women and children who have been abused. “1st for Women has and always will be for women. The strength to save lives and change the world lies in the sheer amount of people who unite. When you’re joined by others who support you, your resolve and spirit strengthens. That is the essence of this year’s 1st for Women Sisters with Blisters walk. We want to walk together because when we come together and unite in our efforts we’ll achieve more than if we go it alone. For our mothers, for our sisters, for our daughters, for our girlfriends, for you, for women,” says Casey Rousseau, Marketing Manager at 1st for Women Insurance.
“The scourge of women abuse in South Africa, whether it is emotional, physical, economical, as well as the inequalities of women which we see on a daily basis, are not going to disappear,” says Boni Mchunu General Manager of East Coast Radio. “We have to keep talking about it, sharing our stories and showing our support if we want to start making a lasting difference. We have to do it together, because together we are stronger.” The theme for this year’s #SisterWithBlisters walk is ‘together let’s #GiveAbuseTheBoot’. When we come together through our collective efforts we will be able to find the solutions to give abuse the boot for good. It encourages men, women, children and their four-legged friends to unite and show their support during the 5km walks.The 1st for Women Sisters with Blister walk forms part of a holistic solution which was implemented by 1st for Women at the start of 16 Days’ of Activism last year. The insurance provider launched its For Women online platform which consolidates women abuse fighting efforts in one place. The initiative was launched to address the three pillars of support against women abuse, namely prevention, preparation and provision. In addition, the 1st for Women Foundation has raised R56 million, over the last 12 years, in the fight against women abuse. “It is our commitment to women in South Africa that their rights and safety are consistently recognised and that we are addressing the problem of women abuse holistically. The 1st for Women Sisters with Blisters walk forms part of our provision pillar as the funds raised will be donated to organisations which are supporting women who have suffered abuse. In addition, the walk is an opportunity for us to come together and walk together as we show our support for women who have suffered abuse. They are not alone and have the support of their communities. As a brand for women, we want to make a tangible and lasting difference to all South African women and to make this happen as a collective,” says Rousseau.