It is hardly likely that a 23-year-old mother-to-be envisioned her baby being born on the side of the road but last Monday she gave birth to her little daughter with gracious assistance from the PT medical team on the Quality Street Bridge near the M4, south of Durban. PT Ambulance spokesperson, Jeshona Singh, said, “At approximately 10.30am whilst returning from an accident scene, PT Ambulance Services was stopped by members of the community on the Quality Bridge, near the M4 as there was a pregnant woman experiencing pain. Upon further inspection, it was established that the 23-year-old woman was already in stage three labour. PT Medics, Sthembiso, Nokubonga and Ngxaki had to begin the delivery process as the baby began crowning. At 11.11am, a beautiful baby girl was born whilst parked on the roadside.”
Both mother and baby were transported to the nearest hospital and were said to be in a healthy condition. “Well done to the PT Medics for ensuring the little bundle of joy received a safe welcome into her mother’s arms,” said Singh. Meanwhile, the PT Medical Team sprung forth to assistance yet again when their ambulance personnel chased a vehicle who was in pursuit of a hit and run driver with injured patients seated at the rear of the bakkie. According to PT’s Jeshona Singh, the medical team on duty witnessed an accident between a Toyota Condor and a bakkie at a busy intersection in Isipingo, recently. “A Toyota Condor collided with a bakkie and then fled the scene. Medics on duty, Marco Munsamy and Lungelo Sijadu noticed that there were two injured of the four people seated at the back of the bakkie. Honouring their commitment to treating the injured, they joined the chase and the vehicle was stopped near Coedmore on the N2. Two occupants seated at the back of the bakkie sustained injuries, one to the shoulder and the other to both legs. Patients were stabilised and transported to the nearest hospital. SAPS Montclair was on scene,” said Singh. “Management commends the medics for going the extra mile to lend assistance in such a situation,” Singh added.