Isipingo SAPS has embarked on various safety programmes at the 13 schools in the Isipingo vicinity. School Safety Committees are set up in schools and frequent meetings are held to identify safety problems and try to resolve them. The committee consists of SAPS members, the principal and an educator appointed as a school safety officer, the chairperson of the SGB, the security company director employed by the school and the appointed male and female RCL representatives. Isipingo SAPS communications officer, Cpt David Ragavan, said, “During the month of February and March all these schools will be visited with the intention of searching the school at random for drugs, alcohol, dangerous weapons and other items not permitted in the schools; as well as talks will be conducted advising learners on the consequences of being convicted of crimes.”
“Learners should be informed that should they be convicted of any crime, their chances of employment is slim as well as their intentions of going abroad to seek employment. We have engaged the assistance from other governmental and non-governmental organisations with these school programmes,” Cpt Ragavan said. Mel Singh from the House of David- Community Centre will be continuing her ‘FFF’ programme – Fearless, Fabulous and Feminine – designed to uplift the senior female learners and Shailen Singh will be conducting the ‘No Apology’ programme- Character Building for young men. “We will also be working with the Child Welfare and Bobbi Bear in educating learners of all grades on sexual abuse, HIV/AIDS and the basic Rights of a Child. We will be presenting Drug Awareness programmes in these school as there seem to be a great concern. Learners were arrested with drugs during the last month at schools. Although they were released into their parents’ custody, they still have to follow the Courts process,” added Cpt Ragavan. He said, “We will be teaming up with our schools in celebrating all National Calendar events throughout the year with local businesses and Security Companies- Alpha Alarms, PT Alarms and Chubb Security as partners. Thus far, we have received positive feedback from the schools, principals and educators are looking forward to these programmmes.”