Volunteers in partnership with the Newcastle Municipality’s Community Services got down and dirty to keep Newcastle clean. Dealing with the unpleasant sight of dumped used baby diapers, volunteers embarked on a Friday clean-up campaign to root out dirt from every dump in areas around Newcastle, Madadeni, Osizweni and Blaauboch. Newcastle Express also joined in the campaign near Theku Plaza at Blaaubosch, last Friday. The community was urged to work together with the municipality and wipe-off the mentality that they are creating work for municipal workers when they dump dirt in every corner. Various incidents of the threat to the lives of residents caused by overgrown grass among others was brought to the attention of the municipality. Newcastle has been experiencing favourable weather conditions with seasonal rainfall leading to fast growth of the grass. The clean-up campaign was also an initiative by a community leader Sandile Mthembu from Ward 29, following an appeal by Mayor Cllr Advocate Makhosini Nkosi during his budget road shows last year. The mayor had urged the community to keep Newcastle clean and partner with the municipality. According to Acting Strategic Executive Director for Community Services, Dr Dumisani Thabethe, Mthembu heeded the call and got volunteers to clean and were provided with tools and equipment by the municipality to maintain the campaign. Local popular Dj Sfisos Maseko has also joined in to keep the town clean. Mthembu has also called on the community to be environmentally conscious. “There should be a balance in our environment because when you are clean as an individual, the place around you should also be kept clean inside and outside your home,” said Mthembu. Parks and EPWP workers are also part of the campaign that is run every Friday. Volunteers from Section One in Madadeni also dedicated themselves to cleaning a skip which was giving the municipality a headache and requested equipment to clean up according to a municipal official. Dr Thabethe also appealed to the residents to respect the space that was cleaned and utilise the available skips to dump only garden refuse and keep their front yards clean. They have also been urged to be patient with the municipality for the waste bag collection meant for household waste only. Many residents have complained of the delay of the collection of the refuse, but were however assured by the municipality that their waste would be collected on the set days as it is a health hazard if left on the streets and dumped anywhere.