Panasonic Jaguar Racing is ready to continue its fight for points in the fifth E-Prix of the 2017/18 ABB FIA Formula E Championship in Mexico City. The Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez Circuit is 2 500m above sea level, placing greater physical exertion on the drivers, and provides a new environment to test the key components of the Jaguar I-TYPE 2. Panasonic Jaguar Racing has shown significant improvement this season and hopes to follow-up on its double point-scoring finish in the previous round, in Santiago. Last season Mitch Evans took fourth place in a dramatic Mexico City E-Prix – the Jaguar team’s best result of season three. This season at least one driver has consistently finished in the points and the British team has risen to fourth in the team standings. The team is hopeful that it can deliver another points-finish at the only permanent racetrack in the series. Said Mitch Evans, #20 driver: “Mexico last year was a fantastic moment for the team. It was the first and only race both drivers finished in the points. So far this season we have made huge improvements on our race strategy and the Jaguar I-TYPE 2 has proved it is a fast race car. Santiago was one of my best performances in Formula E to start in last place and finish seventh was amazing. I’m hoping we can build on that in Mexico City and bring home more points.” Nelson Piquet Jr, #3 driver, said: “In the last four races we’ve been consistently scoring points on a variety of tracks, both traditional street circuits like in Santiago and semi-street like Marrakesh, so we are hoping we will perform just as well on the traditional circuit in Mexico. Our Jaguar racecars have speed and with every race we get closer and closer to the front of the field. We will push again in Mexico and keep learning and improving as we compete for vital championship points.” Panasonic Jaguar Racing’s continued success on track has run in parallel with the development of the all new Jaguar I-PACE, Jaguar’s first all-electric performance SUV, which will be launched on 1 March while the race team are in Mexico City. FanBoost opens for the fifth E-Prix of the season at 7pm on Monday,  26 February and closes at 0.20am (South African Standard Time) Sunday, 4 March.