As a devastating fire ripped through a children’s home in Sherwood, swift action from staff and security saw 57 children rescued and taken to safety on Tuesday night. There was one reported case of smoke inhalation where an employee was treated on scene. The Edith Benson’s Children’s Home on Garbutt Road went up in flames at about 7pm and saw firefighters battle the blaze for about two hours whilst staff and community members rallied around the scores of babies and toddlers. Rescue Care Operations Director, Garrith Jamieson, said, “Just after 7pm, Rescue Care paramedics arrived on the scene to find the home well alight. Durban Fire Department was battling the blaze whilst the children were moved to adjacent buildings. The section of the fire was the baby section and 57 children ranging from three months old to five year old were rescued and unharmed in the incident. One lady, believed to be an employee, was treated on scene for minor smoke inhalation. The Durban Fire Department worked to extinguish the blaze which took close on two hours. Multiple Fire Tenders were on the scene.” Speaking to the Weekly Gazette, Ethekwini Metro Fire Department Divisional Commander, Justin Bateman, said, “The staff and security were phenomenal in evacuating the children and taking them to a safe place. When firefighters arrived on scene, the fire was burning rapidly. It was pretty much a burn-out. We managed to save a carport and a small house. Two gas cylinders nearby were quickly removed to prevent further disaster. The blaze was contained in about two hours. Most importantly, the children were removed and were safe and unharmed. Investigations are underway.” Community activist and Sydenham CPF chairman, Satish Dhupelia, said, “The response from the community and businesses for items required by the children has been overwhelming. Currently, the children are being housed in three different homes with their caregivers. Once an appeal was made for items needed by Ethekwini Secure, there was a flood of donations that poured in up until 1:30am on Wednesday morning. A host of volunteers gathered to sort the items which are being stored at a mosque in Sherwood. Necessities are being divided and distributed to the three homes where the children are residing at. All members of public and businesses who opened their hearts, hands and pockets to provide for the children are thanked immensely. The Ethekwini Fire Department personnel, as well as emergency services and the house staff are commended for the dedicated efforts in the rescue of the children and the extinguishing of the fire, respectively. For now, the children are well taken care of and will receive trauma counselling.” Dhupelia has suggested that members of public who are interested in assisting the children’s home, should hold on with sponsoring items and rather help financially to rebuild the home as quickly as possible so that the children can have their shelter back. Those interested in contributing financially, can use the following banking details: Account name: Child Welfare Durban and District
Bank: Standard Bank – Windermere
Account number: 251139042
Branch code: 042726
Ref: EBBH Fire