As sentiments of love filled the air on Valentine’s Day, a Phoenix father of one claims he was being brutally beaten by his wife and members of her family as his five-year-old daughter, cried out, “Don’t hit my daddy; stop hitting my daddy. The 33-year-old husband alleged he suffered an onslaught of physical and verbal abuse on the night of 14 February and had to be stabilised by paramedics at his parents’ house before he was rushed to hospital for medical treatment. The injured dad received stitches on his head, arm and back after he claims his wife wielded a bush-knife and ruthlessly attacked him whilst some of her family members also vented their fury on him. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, the distressed dad said he is at his wit’s end following the vicious and violent attack on his life, which he feels can be classified as attempted murder. “The community focuses a lot on women abuse but men are embarrassed to come forward when they are being abused by their wives. Any form of abuse is wrong. I would rather people look down on me and me get my life together than stay in silence and eventually lose my life in this way. I have a case of assault GBH opened at Phoenix SAPS. I am afraid of my life and more so because my five-year-old daughter is in the care of her violent mother and her family,” the distraught father said. According to the injured husband, he was allegedly first attacked by his wife’s father and thereafter by his 28-year-old wife and her brother-in-law on the fateful evening of Valentine’s Day. The violence against him was allegedly sparked over a dispute with his father-in-law regarding the health of his daughter. “I ran for my life. My daughter watched this attack on me. She cried to them to stop. My brother-in-law followed me in his car and attempted to run me over whilst my wife and her father chased me on foot. I ran to Westside Road where they caught up with me. My brother-in-law hit me with a baton, my father-in-law kicked me whilst I was on the ground and my wife chopped me with the bush-knife, cutting me in three places,” the victim said. “I thought my life was over. All I could think about was my daughter and if I would ever see her again. A Good Samaritan helped me and took me to my in-laws place where we were residing to pick up my documents for hospital. By this time, my wife and her family proceeded to my parents’ house where she informed my elderly parents that they had chopped me and left me to die.
They told my parents to go pick up my body. My family rushed to locate me and took me home where paramedics stabilised me before I was hospitalised,” added the devastated father. “I stuck through this marriage filled with violence and abuse for the sake of my daughter. My wife always says that she will take my daughter far away from me and I will never see her again. I thought that if I put up with this and get to be share some part of my child’s life, I will have some opportunity to instill some good morals and values in her as opposed to writing her off and she being fully exposed to the upbringing that her mother and my in laws have to offer. I am at a point now where I fear for my life, the safety of my parents and more importantly, I fear the influence that my wife and her family have over my daughter’s life,” said the emotional dad. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Cpt L Naidoo, confirmed the case and said, “A case of assault GBH was registered at Phoenix SAPS. We encourage men to report abuse. It is nothing to be embarrassed about. The longer you take, to take a stand, just like some women, you will become a statistic.”
Comment from the wife was not forthcoming at the time of going to press.