Brazen armed robbers unleashed havoc when they hit a jewellery store in the Phoenix Plaza leaving two suspects shot and six arrested, following a high-speed chase by police on Sunday. The action-packed scenes played out like a movie when the gun-toting robbers entered the store and demanded jewellery. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Cpt L Naidoo, said, “The complainant was in the store with three other staff members when the incident occurred. One suspect entered the store under the pretext of being a customer and appeared to be speaking on his cellphone. The rest of the gang entered thereafter and they produced two firearms. The suspects demanded jewellery and grabbed various jewellery items.” “An off-duty police officer witnessed the robbery in progress and gave chase. He saw the suspects dropping one neck chain and a bracelet. One of the suspects pointed a firearm at the police member at which point he withdrew his service pistol. The suspect fired one shot and the police officer shot the back of the suspects getaway vehicle, a maroon VW Golf, causing the windscreen to shatter,” said Cpt Naidoo. “Police responded and back up was called as the officers pursued the suspects in a high speed chase headed towards the M25. The suspects opened fire on police who returned fire. One suspect managed to flee and six suspects were arrested. One cartridge was found in suspects’ vehicle and was taken by police. The jewellery was recovered. There were no injuries to the police officers,” said Cpt Naidoo. Netcare 911 reported on the shooting and said in a media report that at approximately 12:26pm on Sunday afternoon Netcare 911 responded to reports of a shooting on the M25 Curnick Ndlovu Highway. “Reports from the scene indicate that an armed robbery had occurred at a busy shopping centre in the Phoenix area. Whilst the suspects were been chased by responding police, a shootout had occurred. Paramedics from Netcare 911 and EMRS treated two patients who had sustained multiple gunshot wounds. The Department of Health Red Cross Air Mercy Services Helicopter was called in to airlift one of the patients believed to be in his twenties,” reported Netcare 911. According to KZN VIP’s Operations Director, Glen Naidoo, who responded to the scene shortly after the robbery took place, said that there were nine suspects who hit the store. “CCTV footage was viewed. The suspects appeared brutal and assaulted staff members. KZN VIP and EMRS Medical Teams rushed to the crime scene and treated the injured. A bystander was also assaulted and was treated by KZN VIP Medics. KZN VIP Response Units responded to the scene in the vicinity of the entrance to KwaMashu. One of the vehicles and some of the exhibits were recovered by the police. One suspect jumped from the moving vehicle and jumped off the bridge where he was seriously injured,” said Naidoo.