The Durban University of Technology has noted with concern the continuing staff strike and the allegations directed against the Vice-Chancellor Professor Thandwa Mthembu. Whilst the claims are not true, these allegations and other issues raised against the Vice-Chancellor by the Unions, will be addressed by Council and the University respectively. DUT wishes to urge the Unions to rather focus on finding a solution to the salary deadlock, which has a negative impact on our academic programme for 2018. The combined objective should be to resolve the current salary crisis so that more of our students can register quicker and our academic programme could start soonest. 2018 Academic calendar The University has taken a decision to delay the start of the 2018 academic year by a week. Lectures will now commence on Monday, 12 February 2018. This will give those students who have not registered as yet, another week to either register online (http://www.dut.ac.za/student_portal/student_registration/online_registration) or to register in person, on campus in Durban or in the Main Hall at the DUT Riverside campus in Pietermaritzburg. Students who need assistance regarding 2018 admissions can call, 0313735005 during office hours. Salary impasse No agreement was reached following the resumption of salary negotiations between Management of the Durban University of Technology and the three labour unions (NEHAWU, TENUSA and NTEU) yesterday (Wednesday, 31 January 2018). DUT would like to highlight the following key points regarding the current industrial action undertaken by staff and the subsequent negotiation processes. 23 January 2018 Salary Negotiations Unfortunately, no agreement was reached and the three unions walked out of the negotiations. The Unions then wrote to the DUT Council requesting their intervention. The EXCO of Council met on Thursday 24 January 2018, revised the mandate on condition that further negotiations would be be managed by an independent mediator. The Unions rejected this appeal from EXCO of Council. 31 January 2018 Salary Negotiations Management then increased their offer to 6.25% increase on the basic salary and a 6.25% in the monthly housing allowance. Management then highlighted to labour the context of earlier representation made, in terms of sustainability issues of the University and the fact that labour was not making substantial movements. The insistence by the Unions that DUT agree to a once-off bonus payment or a 14th cheque was hampering the negotiation. Management did not have a mandate from the DUT Council to offer a once-off bonus or 14th cheque as part of the salary negotiation. After an adjournment for both parties to consult, the Unions and Management returned with offers without prejudice: Union’s Offer: DUT Management Offer: Beyond the above positions, labour was not prepared to revise their position. The second option that needs to be explored is the intervention of a mediator. Currently, the Unions have rejected the University’s request for the CCMA or another independent mediator to assist. DUT Management would like to assure its stakeholders that they will continue to work towards ensuring that the functions and work of the University continues and that the safety and protection of students, staff and University property remain a priority. Whilst the protestors have tried to disrupt student registration, the University remains open. Students are registering online via the DUT website and more students are registering on campus in Durban and at the Riverside campus in Pietermaritzburg. DUT wishes to express its sincere apologies for any inconvenience caused and appreciates the patience and understanding that has been demonstrated by all DUT stakeholders  at this challenge time. Media Statement By Alan Khan, Senior Director: Corporate Affairs At The Durban University Of Technology