The not-to-be-missed Women360 experiential event debuts at the Sibaya Casino Sun Park in Durban from Friday, 23 to Sunday, 25 February as part of the official Miss South Africa regional competition. Women360 kicks off at 4pm on Friday with Fashionation, where top Durban designers will show off their collections as they contest for the opportunity to become part of the panel that will dress Miss South Africa 2018 during her year of reign. On the following day doors open at 10am for an action-packed day of activities. Speakers focusing on health and wellness include biokineticist Letshego Zulu, who will discuss fitness and healthy living, current Miss South Africa Dr Adé van Heerden who will lead a panel on mental health, depression, eating disorders and anxiety, and Dr Mattheo de Villiers who will give advice on aesthetics and preventative medicine. International celebrity chef Siba Mtongana will also be in attendance to share tips in making every day healthy food choices. Other speakers include leading expert on social media law, Emma Sadleir, who will point out the pitfalls of being online and how to protect yourself and be digitally savvy, while Mark Grobbelaar, a sixth dan karate expert and creator of the acclaimed Women INPowered (WIP), will give a demonstration from his courses which empower women with tools to help them deal with life-threatening situations. The day will end with a workshop organised by the Miss South Africa Organisation, especially for those interested in entering the pageant. This includes a make-up demo master class by expert Gina Myers, sharing the innermost secrets and tricks of the trade with acclaimed pageant coach and creative director Werner Wessels and tips from catwalk expert Andiswa Manxiba and model boss Lara White. The KZN regional competition adjudication will take place on Sunday 10 am with pageant judges Bokang Montjane (Miss South Africa 2010), Gareth Flusk (Sun International and the Miss SA Organisation), Lara White (director, Boss Models) and Suzette van der Merwe (Miss South Africa 1990). Guest judges for the KZN regionals are Bongani Mtolo, Siba Mtongana and Shashi Naidoo. The MC for Women360 is actor and model Zweli Dube. Miss South Africa 2018 will be crowned on May 27 at the pageant’ s diamond jubilee, to be held at Sun International’s new flagship Time Square Sun Arena in Pretoria. The winner will take the crown and more than R2 million in prizes. Registration for those wishing to enter Miss South Africa 2018 is now open on the Miss South Africa website www.misssa.co.za.