A horrific single vehicle accident claimed two young lives on the M4 north near the Glen Ashley offramp on Sunday evening just before 11pm. The deceased men have been identified as friends, Suveer Sookoo and Shaylen Mudali. Shaylen was well known as a videographer and editor at ITen Entertainment and the director of Creative Panda, as well as being a talented artist. Rescue Care Paramedics arrived on the scene to find the single vehicle on its roof well alight. “The Durban Fire Department arrived a short while later and quickly extinguished the blaze. Two occupants entrapped in the vehicle believed to be both males had sustained severe injuries including severe burns. There was nothing more paramedics could do for them and they were declared deceased on the scene,” said Rescue Care Operations Director, Garrith Jamieson. He added that the circumstances leading up to the single vehicle accident are unknown however SAPS were on the scene and will be investigating further. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Mark Simon, director of ITen Entertainment, said, “Shaylen was a friend more than a colleague. At ITen, we are not just a team, we are a family. Therefore hearing of Shaylen’s passing has left us traumatised. No words can aptly describe what we are feeling right now upon hearing of the passing of these two young men. Shaylen lived life to the fullest. Both young men spent their last day at a charity event sowing into the life of those less fortunate. How admirable and selfless. I will always remember Shaylen’s motto that he shared with me, ‘Collect memories, not things’.”
Friends, colleagues and family members took to Facebook to express their shock and grief at the tragic passing of the young friends. “RIP SHAYLEN, too many young entertainers gone to soon, it’s seems like god wants to start his own little show up in heaven,” wrote one Facebook friend. Another Facebooker shared, ‘Rip Suveer Sookoo & Shaylen Mudali still very shocked that you guys are gone,’ whilst yet another grief-stricken friend posted, ‘May God give the family and friends added strength and sustain all those mourning for these two young men. Two young men gone way before they could flourish.”