Stunning action from the Lexus flagship LC 500 coupe is a feature of Marvel Studios’ highly anticipated “Black Panther”, which is presently on circuit in cinemas nationwide. The film, part of a robust collaboration between Lexus and Marvel, uses the Black Panther’s life as a superhero and as royalty to show the two sides of the LC: performance and luxury. Lexus general manager of international strategic communications Brian Bolain said Marvel’s charismatic characters and inspiring stories were an ideal match with the Lexus mission to craft amazing, engaging experiences. “The LC’s aggressive styling, high performance and agile handling are a perfect fit for the Black Panther’s quick, cat-like reflexes and superhuman feats. We’re excited to see the duo in action.” In the film, which takes place after the events of Marvel Studios’ Captain America: Civil War, the character T’Challa (Black Panther) returns home to the isolated, technologically advanced African nation of Wakanda to take his place as king. Marvel’s senior vice-president of global partnerships Mindy Hamilton said the campaign clicked from the get-go. “We have this bold, sophisticated hero stepping into the spotlight for the first time, and it’s been a blast to work with the Lexus team to build out a story that’ll familiarise fans with T’Challa as well as his advanced home nation of Wakanda.” Black Panther was directed by Ryan Coogler and stars Chadwick Boseman, Michael B. Jordan and Lupita Nyong’o. The collaboration between Lexus and Marvel Studios’ Black Panther includes a commercial that aired during the recent Super Bowl, which matched the new Lexus LS 500 F sport flagship luxury sedan with the film’s hero. It also resulted in an original graphic novel created with Marvel Custom Solutions, Black Panther: Soul of a Machine. In October, ahead of SEMA, Lexus unveiled a custom concept coupe dubbed the Black Panther Inspired LC.  The collaboration between Lexus and Marvel Studios is being executed by the luxury carmaker’s multicultural advertising agency, Walton Isaacson. Black Panther
Marvel Studios’ “Black Panther” follows T’Challa who, after the death of his father, the King of Wakanda, returns home to the isolated, technologically advanced African nation to succeed to the throne and take his rightful place as king. But when a powerful old enemy reappears, T’Challa’s mettle as king — and Black Panther — is tested when he is drawn into a formidable conflict that puts the fate of Wakanda and the entire world at risk. Faced with treachery and danger, the young king must rally his allies and release the full power of Black Panther to defeat his foes and secure the safety of his people and their way of life. “Black Panther” stars Chadwick Boseman, Michael B. Jordan, Lupita Nyong’o, Danai Gurira, Martin Freeman, Daniel Kaluuya, Letitia Wright, Winston Duke, with Angela Bassett, with Forest Whitaker, and Andy Serkis.