Film-producers, conservationists, documentary-makers and nature enthusiasts with an eye for filmmaking can still register for the second edition of the Nature, Environment and Wildlife Filmmakers Congress (NEWF) which will take place at the Durban Botanic Gardens from 16 to 18 July as part of the city-wide focus on film in July. Noel Kok, founder and Programme Director of NEWF, said that the event is designed to facilitate networking. “The Nature, Environment and Wildlife Filmmakers Congress is designed for passionate filmmakers around the world to forge new relationships, build on those already formed, innovate and move towards further development in natural history and conservation content creation, using Africa as the key landmark,” said Kok. The congress highlights include a couture fashion show, an editing master-class in the Butterfly Dome by multi-award winning editor Candice Odgers and a screening of Durban artist and filmmaker Janet Solomon’s passion-project movie, Becoming Visible. “Together we inspire African filmmakers to bring life to their stories, the celebrations, binding connections and plight of our nature, environment and wildlife and ultimately distribute these stories to film festivals and broadcasters world over,” said Kok. One of its key areas of focus is the NEWF Development Fund – a programme designed to fund the production of documentary shorts to kick-start the next generation of nature, environment, wildlife and adventure filmmakers. To this end, nine finalists have been shortlisted to individually ‘pitch’ their ideas to an industry panel at the finals of the N.E.W Pitch Competition during the congress. The congress offers three full days of top-draw networking opportunities, complimentary breakfasts, lunches, cocktails and a myriad presentations by global leaders talking to the themes of new perspectives, ‘Under the Baobab’ storytelling, beyond the technical and specific case studies. Registration is still open for this year’s Nature, Environment & Wildlife Filmmakers Congress. For more info email: registration@newf.co.za or contact Pragna on 064 294 0669.