Quick action by members of Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) led to the apprehension of a driver believed to have been intoxicated and alleged to be responsible for the death of a pedestrian in a hit and run incident on the R102 in the vicinity of Mount Moriah on Saturday. The driver who together with a passenger, fled the scene of the incident, was swiftly traced after her vehicle number plate fell off during the fatal crash. RUSA head, Prem Balram, said, “At approximately 6:27am, the RUSA Operations Centre in Phoenix received a call of a pedestrian knocked down and lying in the flow of traffic. Upon arrival, RUSA Medics assessed the woman and found that she had suffered an extensive head injury which resulted in her demise. The vehicle involved in the accident had fled however a number plate was located near the deceased. A registration check was conducted and confirmed that it belonged to a white Toyota Corolla. Minutes later, a vehicle matching the description was seen passing the scene. The occupants included a female driver and a male passenger. The vehicle was missing the front number plate and the front was damaged.” “RUSA members flagged down the driver, however, the vehicle sped off. The vehicle was pursued and it was brought to a stop on the M25 onramp. The intoxicated driver attempted to bribe RUSA members and asked them to discard the number plate that fell at the scene. She was escorted back to the scene and was handed over to police for further investigation,” Balram said. “RUSA members are commended for acting with speed and ensuring that the perpetrator alleged to be responsible for taking the life of a pedestrian, was apprehended. Reaction officers are often bombarded with various bribery offers when they expose suspects and criminals. They, however, stand firm, and ensure that justice is served in the face of such challenges. It is tragic that the driver thought nothing of speeding off and leaving a woman dead on the road. The alleged drunk driver took a life and possibly robbed a family of a breadwinner, a mother. This kind of reckless and negligent driving must be curbed and those guilty of this kind of practice must be dealt with severely by the law,” added Balram.