A joint operation held with Umkomaas Crime Prevention, Provincial Task Team and ET Security in Amanzimtoti on 5 July 2018, led to the discovery of an unlicensed 9mm firearm, ammunition, cellphones, ladies underwear, bags, perfumes and clothing to the value of R80 000. Members worked on information after a known and wanted suspect for business robbery was arrested the day before in possession of stolen property to the value of
R130 000. Ethekwini Outer South Cluster (EOSC) communications officer, Cpt C Rhynes, said, “The members managed to then infiltrate a group of criminals, connected to committing business burglaries in Amanzimtoti, Scottburgh and Umkomaas area. A further three men were arrested aged 32, 34 and 36 linked to business burglary cases in Amanzimtoti, Scottburgh and Umkomaas areas. All suspects appeared in court on the 6 July 2018. Bail was opposed and the accused re-appeared in Scottburgh, Durban and Umbumbulu court on 11 July 2018.”
“This group of arrested criminals’ modus operandi was breaking through a business roof, cutting open the safe for the cash and then stealing various items within the business. Continual investigations will be done to link them to further cases,” Cpt Rhynes added.
The modus operandi used at the Umkomaas break-in, caught the attention of Tony Lokker of ET Rapid Response and George Snodey of the Toti Community Crime Prevention Organisation (CCPO). Lokker said, “We went down to Umkomaas and met with W/O Naidoo. Due to the MO used in cases in Toti, it was suspected that this was a suspect we were looking for. The suspect also pointed out further exhibits which were positively linked to three other cases in Amanzimtoti, Scottburgh and Umkomaas.
This breakthrough comes after many hours were spent by myself and George, looking and waiting for this gang. They have hit Toti hard over an 11-month period and consist of hardened criminals who know what they are doing and are well armed.”
eThekwini Outer South Acting Cluster Commander, Brigadier Vukani Mgobhozi said, “This is excellent team work done by different teams in the SAPS and with good community police partnerships. I commend the good arrests made in breaking open this group of criminals and I am confident that it will have an impact in decreasing business break-ins in Amanzimtoti, Umkomaas and Scottburgh.”