Full Council tabled a report updating council on preparations that are currently underway for the Durban, KZN Ebandla investment drive to the United Kingdom planned for 5 to 9 June. The report stated that the strategic objective of this initiative is to further promote Durban as Africaís premier investment destination. This will deliver on the call for all spheres of government to proactively secure accelerated investment and job creation. This requires city leadership to engage in high level discussions with the UK cities of Newcastle and London including their business leadership. EThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede as well as Durban’s business leadership structures are fully involved and leading the proceedings. The aim, according to the tabled report, is to extend and deepen government and business relations as well as bilateral investment drives to Durban. The focal point is to create as much exposure for the city and catalytic projects and to further cement foreign direct investments into the region. It will also create a platform for exposure of further investment-ready flagship projects across the whole province in a demonstration of intergovernmental cooperation and multi-stakeholder partnerships. There will be two main operational legs with the coordination of all arrangements being managed by the Invest Durban Unit as well as support being provided through the KZN Ebandla/African Renaissance Office. Mayor Gumede will lead a comprehensive programme of events and meetings in Durban  Investment Day that will be held on 8 June with a number of pre-arranged, project-focused B2B Investor Meetings as well as an Invest Africa Partnership luncheon and evening cocktail reception and an Investment Panel Discussion. The mission is to promote Durban and KZN as Africa’s premier investment destination in the UK. Current investor-ready projects being showcased in the mission include, Durban Point precinct, Durban Trade Port precinct, Oceans uMhlanga, Beachwood Resort, Blythedale Coastal Resort, Keystone Logistics Park and Cornubia/Sibiya-Tongaat Hulett Developments among others. The mission will be led by Mayor Gumede and two councillors along with executive support from the City Manager Sipho Nzuza, Deputy City Manager Phillip Sithole as well as two officials from the Invest Durban Unit.