Bhekulwandle Primary School in South Durban, recently received much needed school shoes for 100 learners. The generous donation was made possible by uShaka Marine World in collaboration with Ntenga Foundation and “Know Your City” Tour Programme who visited the school to hand over the shoes. Upon arrival, the school of over 800 underprivileged learners was treated to an entertainment act from uShaka Marine World, leaving big smiles on every one of the children’s faces, before Dr Stella Khumalo (CEO of uShaka Marine World) addressed the learners. Thanks to the funds raised by the Ntenga Foundation Charity Run/Walk last year 100 brand new school shoes were donated to the principal, Nontembeka Mpantsha, who had already allocated them accordingly. The entire school, educators and principal were grateful for being considered for the donation. “We are delighted to have been able to provide these children with school shoes and thank you to uShaka Marine World for supporting our fundraising efforts by getting involved in our Charity Run/Walk,” said Siyanda Calvin Ntenga, the chairman of the Ntenga Foundation. Now in its fourth year running, the Ntenga Foundation Charity Run/Walk is already one of the top unique charity mass participation events in KwaZulu Natal, bringing together a superb fusion of music and athletics to Durban. “Nearly 6000 social runners, families and friends will participate at this year’s race by taking part in either a 5km or 10km run/walk. Funds raised through the event goes towards buying school shoes for underprivileged children like those of Bhekulwandle Primary School”, explained Calvin.To commemorate Youth Day, the Ntenga Foundation will be hosting its 4th annual charity run from Moses Mabhida Stadium at 7:00, with the event ending at uShaka Marine World’s Wet ‘n Wild on Saturday, June 16th. The cost to enter the Ntenga Foundation Charity race is R120 per person. To register, visit www.ntenga.com or go to uShaka Marine World’s ticketing office. Online entries close on Tuesday, June 12th at midnight, and manual entries close on Thursday, June 14th. All entrants will receive a race number, an Ntenga Foundation T-shirt, medal on completion of the race as well as one uShaka Marine World Wet ‘n Wild entrance ticket.
For more information contact Siyanda Calvin Ntenga on 076 800 7144.