Two wanted suspects were arrested last Monday on charges of house robbery and attempted murder after they shot a teen in Pennington in April this year. Ugu Cluster communications officer, Cpt V Pandarum, said, “A teenager was shot and wounded on Friday, 20 April at about 3:30am, during an alleged robbery at a unit on a residential estate on the R102 Old Main Road in Pennington. The victim sustained a gunshot wound to his back and was attended to by paramedics at the scene before being taken by ambulance to hospital. “It is alleged that the teen’s dad had gone out at about 3pm, and the youngster shut the door without locking it and went back to bed. A short while later he got up to check on why the dogs were barking and was confronted by two unknown men who had taken a TV and a laptop from the house. One of the men was armed with a gun. The victim’s 17-year-old brother came to assist and a scuffle ensued. “The suspect with the gun shot the 14-year-old victim in the back and both suspects fled the scene with the stolen property. The elder brother then ran to the neighbours for help. The boys’ grandfather was at home and asleep during the incident.” A case of house robbery and attempted murder was registered by the Scottburgh SAPS for investigation. The scene was examined by forensic experts from the Port Shepstone Local Criminal Record Centre (LCRC) offices. “In the early hours of Monday morning, 30 April, members of the Ugu Cluster Operational Command Centre (OCC) and the Umzinto K9 unit joined forces to follow up on information that the two suspects were in hiding in Dududu. They were traced to a house in Dududu and upon seeing police, one of the suspects drew a firearm and took aim at the police who retaliated, wounding him in the chest region. Both suspects were arrested and a 9mm pistol with six live rounds of ammunition were recovered by police. The wounded suspect is under police guard in hospital. The suspects face charges of house robbery and attempted murder,” said Cpt Gwala. The wounded suspect also faces charges of being in unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition as well as of pointing of a firearm. He will appear in the Vulamehlo Magistrates’ Court on those charges.