The South African Police Service (SAPS) is calling on youth from all walks of life between the ages of 18 and 30 to join the Service. An official advert has been published and can be found on the SAPS website www.saps.gov.za under the careers section, and in various newspapers nationally, provincially and locally. Young people who possess leadership skills and regard themselves as honest, focused, highly driven, and are passionate about policing, are encouraged to apply. Applicants must however ensure that, they have never been caught on the wrong side of the law. Those that have criminal records or pending criminal charges as well as those who have previously served in a Government Department and were subsequently dismissed due to misconduct, should not apply. To ensure that the ‘cream of the crop’ is enlisted into the service all applicants will be subjected to fitness, psychometric and integrity testing as well as medical evaluations during the recruitment, selection and enlistment process. Vetting and fingerprint verifications will also be conducted. Successful applicants will report for training in January 2019 for a period of 21 months. Remuneration for the Induction Phase and Basic Training Phase will be a stipend of R4, 500 The programme consists of three phases: ½ Induction Phase
One (1) month at a designated police station;
½ Basic Training Phase
Eight (8) months Basic Training at a designated SAPS Academy
½ Probation Phase
After successful completion of the Induction and the Basic Training Phase, the police trainee shall be appointed as a member of the Service under probation for a period of 12 months So, do you possess the following minimum requirements? ½ Are between the ages of 18 and 30
½ In possession of a Grade 12 certificate
½ Proficient in at least two languages of which one must be English
½ Prepared to take the oath of office
½ No criminal record/pending criminal cases
If you answered yes to all these requirements, then what are you waiting for? now is your time to join the service. “This is a fantastic opportunity for the youth of this country who are promising, disciplined and have the right attitude to become members of the South African Police Service. The SAPS remains the number one choice of employment. We are currently on a nationwide recruitment drive to seek these young people who will one day ensure that the people of South Africa are and feel safe. Good luck to all the applicants, I look forward to meeting some of you during the recruitment drives,” said Lieutenant General Bonang Mgwenya, Deputy National Commissioner Human Resources Management in the South African Police Service. The National Commmissioner of the SAPS, General Khehla Sitole would like to encourage the youth of South Africa to be part of the SAPS family, as we endeavour to contribute to the grand economic strategy of this country by combating the scourge of crime.
For more information, seek application forms at your nearest police station or  visit www.saps.gov.za