Prepare for a weekend of hot and spicy local comedy. The annual Proudly Indian Comedy Festival returns this November with a star studded lineup that is sure to set the stage at Durban’s Moses Mabhida Stadium alight. Showcasing the talents of some of the most exciting names in South African comedy, the three-day festival, which takes place from 2 to 
4 November, is a celebration of both culture and comedy. Proudly Indian features Bash with Tash, The Dingalings, Masood Boomgaard, Mo Vawda, Sagie Murugan and more in a laugh a second comedy extravaganza not to be missed. The festival features a total of 12 comedians. Local audiences need no introduction to the showstopper Dingalings, who have earned legions of fans across the country with their high energy performances and unique observations on “Indian life” and rapid fire quips on just about every topic. Koobeshan Naidoo and Henry Ramkissoon are household names and deservedly so. Also on the weekend lineup is Bash with Tash, the viral video star-come box office superstar who is best known for her improvised, unscripted style of comedy. With Tash, no two shows are the same as she effortlessly cooks up material on stage, often roasting audience members alive. She is arguably one of the biggest viral video stars in the country with her regular social media posts reaching hundreds of thousands of viewers. There is never a dull moment with the “Langara Queen”.Also set to feature is veteran comic, Sagie Murugan, whose signature style of observational comedy and storytelling never disappoints. Among the hot new acts featured in the festival is Mo Vawda, who is fast becoming one of the most sought after comedians in Durban. The brainy PHd candidate and lecturer offers observations on everything from married life to the funny side of being a Muslim abroad. Also look-out for his killer impersonations. One-liner master, Kamz Govender, also 
joins the lineup. The son of singing-comedy sensation, Annalaksmi, Govender is revered for his dry wit and laugh-out-loud “dad jokes”. Participating comedian, Masood Boomgaard, said, “The festival has a very exciting lineup of comedians who each bring something different to the table. Indian comedy is a genre of comedy on its own, a style of comedy with a unique feel to it in many ways. The festival is definitely a cultural experience. Despite the title of the festival, it’s the kind of comedy event that anyone can enjoy.” Proudly Indian Comedy Festival takes place on 2 – 3 November at 8pm and 4 November at 3pm at the Havana Room (next to Cuba) at Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban. Tickets are R150 and are available from Computicket and Checkers. Call 084 664 1015 for more info. Daily lineups are available on the Computicket website.