By Danica Hansen Overport Clinic Manager Jabulani Khumalo said that people are flocking to the clinic which still has stock of life-saving medicine that is in short supply nationally. This as the clinic hosted their Open Day on Friday, 26 October from 9am until 4pm. “There is a crisis with ARVs in our case we still have but we hear that they are out of stock. 
We still have contraceptives but other clinics around have run out- there is a crisis. In May and June we didn’t have stock, but then we ordered extra oral and injective contraceptives in response to the crisis to ensure we wouldn’t run out again,” said Khumalo. “This sort of foresight is one of the contributing factors that make Overport Clinic so popular,” said Khumalo. “We are one of the best clinics in the area with highly qualified, dedicated staff. The municipality prescribed starting time is actually 8am but we open at 6:30.” We have people travelling long distances from townships to come to our clinic. The number of patients visiting the clinic has increased from  about  2 500 or 3 000 to 5 000 approaching a headcount of 6 000,” said Khumalo. 
With the growing number of patients, Khumalo said that additional staff were required at the clinic. “We need more staff. When I notified the municipality about this, they did respond and I must applaud them for this, although we still need more staff. The municipality has added a professional nurse and a two general assistants but we still need more professional nurses,” said Khumalo. According to Khumalo, the Overport Clinic implements a unique structure that keeps things running smoothly. 
“We are a little bit different to other clinics, we don’t make patients sit in one big hall, we have five sections including antenatal care, chronic care for HIV, TB and diabetes patients as well as emergency services. We also have qualified midwifes at the facility to deliver a baby at the clinic and a section for acute care where we attend to minor ailments such as flu,” said Khumalo.
“In February this year, the clinic implemented a programme to help children get to school on time,” said Khumalo. “We prioritise youth and school children between 7:30am and 8:30am because we believe education is important and we don’t want them to miss school. The staff also get special training to treat children and interact with the children to find out what ailments they have,” said Khumalo. “The clinic’s popularity is also owed, in part to community support,” said Khumalo. “We have really good support form our ward councillor, Chris Pappas and businesses in the mall nearby. Pappas is a councillor that I can call at any time, once I called him late because vagrants were trying to break- in to the clinic and Pappas organised a special police team, they really helped us a lot,” said Khumalo.  The Open Day, an annual requirement of the clinic as a municipal facility, included cancer awareness initiatives as well as diabetes screening, hypertension testing, HIV and STI screening as well as mental health screenings,” said Khumalo.